("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(upbeat music)
- [Narrator] For 10 years
Ronja's entire world
was within the safe, stone
walls of Mattis' fort.
When Mattis finally let her
explore the forest outside,
she found the real
world to be far
bigger than she had imagined.
So big that it took
her breath away.
(panting)
(laughter)
(gleeful shout)
(upbeat music)
(giggles)
- Who's there?
Hi there!
(inhale)
(giggling)
You're as big as the fort!
(rushing water)
Wow!
I've never seen so much water!
(tapping)
Wow!
This must be the place
Mattis told me about.
So this is far enough.
(giggle)
Last one!
(laughter)
(grunting)
(yelling)
It's a wonderful sound.
- You're back!
- That's quite a haul, Mattis!
- Ho!
Has Ronja passed?
- Yes, Chief!
- We saw her before!
- Oh, that's good.
Hang on, when exactly was that?
- Earlier!
- It was mid-morning.
She ran past us
looking very happy!
- What if she
hasn't returned home yet?
(groaning)
(mysterious music)
Will you stop?
You'll wear a hole in the floor.
- How can you be calm?
There's Harpies and
Gray Dwarves out there!
- Come on, it's Ronja
we're talking about.
She'll be all right.
- Not home?
- Not yet.
(sigh)
- Who can even think about
eating at a time like this?
I'm worried.
You're worried.
- Even she's worried.
- Oh no, I need to get home.
My bag.
It's on the rock!
Wow.
There's more to
this world
than I thought.
So much more.
What is it?
What do you want?
- [Dwarf] Human here.
(clacking)
Stop.
Stop!
(crying)
- [Dwarves] Gray dwarves strike.
Gray dwarves strike.
Strike, strike.
Bite, strike.
Bite and strike!
Gray dwarves strike.
Strike, strike.
Strike, bite.
Gray dwarves strike.
(crying)
- Ronja!
Be gone, Gray Dwarves!
(roars)
Ronja!
(crying)
You're safe now.
Now you know.
Now you know what
Gray Dwarves are.
- Yes, the Gray Dwarves.
Now I know about them.
I certainly do.
- But what you don't
know yet is how
you're supposed
to deal with them.
If you're frightened,
they can see it in you.
That's when they're
most dangerous.
- That goes for everything.
And not just Gray Dwarves.
So the safest thing is not to be
frightened in Mattis' Forest.
- Not frightened, fine.
I know that now.
- Remember what I told you?
Hmm?
To watch out for?
- I remember.
- And try not to
fall in the river.
- All right then.
(upbeat music)
(gleeful yell)
Don't be afraid.
(giggling)
- [Narrator] In the days
that followed, Ronja
did as her parents told her, and
approached danger
in the forest by
practicing not being frightened.
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter
"Hearing the Whistler".
Don't miss it!
(upbeat music)